docs/03-Set-up-and-Configuration.md, before:

# Set-up and configuration

## Getting started

In order to return search results, Solr requires an Index that holds the searchable data.
So the first thing you _need_ to do is to create an index extending the
`Firesphere\SolrSearch\Indexes\BaseIndex` class, or if you are using the compatibility
module, the `SilverStripe\FullTextSearch\Solr\SolrIndex` class.

If you are extending the base Index, it will require a `getIndexName` method
which is used to determine the name of the index to query Solr.

Although the compatibility module provides a core naming scheme, it is still highly recommended
to implement your own method.

**IMPORTANT**

The usage of `YML` for the core configuration is _not_ a replacement for creating your own Index
extending either of the Base Indexes; it is a complement to it.

`YML` is purely used for the configuration of the index Classes.

## Configuration

Configuring Solr is done via YML:
```yaml
Firesphere\SolrSearch\Services\SolrCoreService:
  config:
    endpoint:
      myhostname:
        host: myhost.com
        port: 8983
        timeout: 10
        # set up timeouts
        index_timeout: 10
        optimize_timeout: 100
        finalize_timeout: 300
        http_method: 'AUTO'
        # commit within 60ms
        commit_within: 60
  # default path settings
  store:
    path: '.solr'
  cpucores: 2
  debug: false
```

#### Note
If you are using defaults (localhost), it is not necessary to add this to your configuration.

The config is used to connect to Solr. This will tell the module where the Solr instance for this index lives and how to connect.

The store is to select the way to configure the solr configuration storage. Available stores are `FileConfigStore` which requires path, or `PostConfigStore` and a required endpoint to post to.

Example POST Store config:
```yaml
---
Name: 'MySearch'
After:
    - 'SolrSearch'
---
Firesphere\SolrSearch\Services\SolrCoreService:
    store:
      path: '/my_post_endpoint'
      uri: 'https://mydomain.com'
```

And the Injector config to use the PostConfigStore:
```yaml
---
Name: MySolrStore
After:
    - 'SolrStore'
---
SilverStripe\Core\Injector\Injector:
  Firesphere\SolrSearch\Interfaces\ConfigStore:
    class: Firesphere\SolrSearch\Stores\PostConfigStore
```

### Authentication

Solr supports several ways of adding authentication to the instance.

The module only supports Basic Authentication, which can be added in the YML config like so:
```yaml
Firesphere\SolrSearch\Services\SolrCoreService:
  config:
    endpoint:
      myhostname:
        username: solr
        password: SolrRocks
```

### Debug

You can force the debugging to false, by setting the debug flag. If you omit this tag, CLI and Dev mode
will have debugging enabled.

#### ShowInSearch

`ShowInSearch` is handled by the module itself, so there is no need to configure it within your YML/PHP index definition. 
When a content author sets this field to `0` via the CMS, then the related Page or File object is actually _removed_ from the applicable Solr 
core immediately through the `onAfterPublish` or `onAfterWrite` method, or during the next run of the `SolrIndexJob`.

Therefore, custom addition of `ShowInSearch` as a filterable or indexable field in YML
is likely to cause unexpected behaviour.

The reason for removing `ShowInSearch = false|0` from the indexing process, 
is to streamline the number of items stored in Solr's indexes. 
There is no effective need for items to be in the search, if they're not supposed to 
be displayed.

#### Dirty classes

If a change fails to update, a `DirtyClass` is created, recording the need for updating
said object. It is recommended to automatically run the `ClearDirtyClasses` task every few hours
depending on the expected amount of changes daily and the importance of those changes.

The expected time to run the task is quite low, so we recommend running this task reasonably
 often (every 5 or 10 minutes).

#### Defining the amount of CPU cores

If your server has multiple CPU cores available, you can define the amount of cores in the config.
During indexing, this means that each core is allocated an indexing of a group.
The advantage is that it utilises all the cores available, speeding up the indexing process.

The amount of cores can not be determined programmatically (due to access control), so
you will have to define the amount of cores available manually.


**NOTE**

Given the current situation in server-land, the default amount of cores is 2. This should work fine for
most situations, even if you only have one core available. If you have more cores, you can make this
amount larger, of course.
Using all of the cores your system has will make your website pretty slow during indexing!
It is advised to keep at least one core free for handling page visits while you're running an index.

### Using init()

Similar to the FulltextSearch module, using init supports all basic methods to add fulltext or filter fields.

Available methods are:

| Method | Purpose | Required | Usage |
| ------ | ------- | -------- | ----- |
| addClass | Add classes to index | Yes | `$this->addClass(SiteTree::class);` |
| addFulltextField | Add fields to index | No<sup>1</sup> | `$this->addFulltextField('Content');` |
| addAllFulltextField | Add all text fields to index | No | `$this->addAllFulltextFields();` |
| addFilterField | Add fields to use for filtering | No | `$this->addFilterField('ID');` |
| addBoostedField | Fields to boost by on Query time | No | `$this->addBoostedField('Title', ([]/2), 2);`<sup>2</sup> |
| addSortField | Field to sort by | No | `$this->addSortField('Created');` |
| addCopyField | Add a special copy field, besides the default _text | No | `$this->addCopyField('myCopy', ['Fields', 'To', 'Copy']);` |
| addStoredField | Add a field to be stored specifically | No | `$this->addStoredField('LastEdited');` |
| addFacetField | Field to build faceting on | No | `$this->addFacetField(SiteTree::class, ['BaseClass' => SiteTree::class, 'Title' => 'FacetObject', 'Field' => 'FacetObjectID']);` |
 

### Using YML

```yaml
Firesphere\SolrSearch\Indexes\BaseIndex:
  MySearchIndex:
    Classes:
      - SilverStripe\CMS\Model\SiteTree
    FulltextFields:
      - Content
      - TestObject.Title
      - TestObject.TestRelation.Title
    SortFields: 
	  - Created
    FilterFields:
      - Title
      - Created
      - Firesphere\SolrSearch\Tests\TestObject
    BoostedFields:
	  - Title
    CopyFields:
      _text:
        - '*'
    DefaultField: _text
    FacetFields:
      Firesphere\SolrSearch\Tests\TestObject:
        BaseClass: SilverStripe\CMS\Model\SiteTree
        Field: ID
        Title: TestObject

```

#### MySearchIndex

This name should match the name you provided in your Index extending the `BaseIndex` you are instructed
to create in the first step of this document.

#### Moving from init to YML

The [compatibility module](13-Submodules/01-Fulltext-Search-Compatibility.md) has an optional extension 
method that allows you to build your index and then generate the YML content for you. 
See the compatibility module for more details.

## Grouped indexing

Be aware that Grouped indexing is `0`-based. Thus, if there are 150 groups to index,
the final group to index will be 149 instead of 150.

## Method output casting

To get the correct Solr field type in the Solr Configuration, you will need to add a
casting for each method you want to add. So for the `Content` field, the method below:

```php
public function getContent()
{
    return $renderedContent;
}
```

Could have a casting like the below to ensure it renders as HTML:

```php
private static $casting = [
    'getContent' => 'HTMLText',
    'Content'    => 'HTMLText'
];
```

Depending on your field definition, you either need to have the full method name, or the short method name.

## Another way to set the config in PHP

You could also use PHP to set the config. For readability however, it's better to use variables for Facets:
```php
    protected $facetFields = [
        RelatedObject::class   => [
            'BaseClass' => SiteTree::class,
            'Field'     => 'RelatedObjectID',
            'Title'     => 'RelationOne'
        ],
        OtherRelatedObject::class => [
            'BaseClass' => SiteTree::class,
            'Field'     => 'OtherRelatedObjectID',
            'Title'     => 'RelationTwo'
        ]
    ];
```

This will generate a facet field in Solr, assuming this relation exists on `SiteTree` or `Page`.

The relation would look like `SiteTree_RelatedObjectID`, where `RelatedObject` the name of the relation reflects.

The Title is used to group all facets by their Title, in the template, this is accessible by looping `$Result.FacetSet.TitleOfTheFacet`

### Important notice

Facets are relational. For faceting on a relation, omit the origin class (e.g. `SiteTree`), but supply the full relational
path to the facet. e.g. if you want to have facets on `RelationObject->ManyRelation()->OneRelation()->ID`, the Facet declaration should be
`ManyRelationObject.OneRelationID`, assuming it's a `has_one` relation.

If you have many relations, through either `many_many` or `has_many`, your definition should 
use `ManyRelationObjectName.Relation.ID` instead of `RelationID`. It works and resolves the same.

It is strongly advised to use relations for faceting, as Solr tends to think of textual relations in a different way.

#### Example

If you set relations on `MyObject.TextField`, and the text field contains "Content Name
One" and "Content Name Two", faceting would be done in such a way that "Content", "Name"
and "One" would be three different facet results, rather than "Content Name One".

## Accessing Solr

If available, you can access your Solr instance at `http://mydomain.com:8983`

## Excluding unwanted indexes

To exclude unwanted indexes, it is possible declare a list of _wanted_ indexes in the `YML`

```yaml
Firesphere\SolrSearch\Services\SolrCoreService:
  indexes:
    - CircleCITestIndex
    - Firesphere\SolrSearch\Tests\TestIndex
    - Firesphere\SolrSearch\Tests\TestIndexTwo
    - Firesphere\SolrSearch\Tests\TestIndexThree
```

Looking at the `tests` folder, there is a `TestIndexFour`. This index is not loaded unless explicitly asked.


----------
<sup>1</sup> Although not required, it's highly recommended

<sup>2</sup> The second option of an array can be omitted and directly given the boost value

Commit message:

docs: add documentation for using exclude_classes on index

docs/03-Set-up-and-Configuration.md, after:

# Set-up and configuration

## Getting started

In order to return search results, Solr requires an Index that holds the searchable data.
So the first thing you _need_ to do is to create an index extending the
`Firesphere\SolrSearch\Indexes\BaseIndex` class, or if you are using the compatibility
module, the `SilverStripe\FullTextSearch\Solr\SolrIndex` class.

If you are extending the base Index, it will require a `getIndexName` method
which is used to determine the name of the index to query Solr.

Although the compatibility module provides a core naming scheme, it is still highly recommended
to implement your own method.

**IMPORTANT**

The usage of `YML` for the core configuration is _not_ a replacement for creating your own Index
extending either of the Base Indexes; it is a complement to it.

`YML` is purely used for the configuration of the index Classes.

## Configuration

Configuring Solr is done via YML:
```yaml
Firesphere\SolrSearch\Services\SolrCoreService:
  config:
    endpoint:
      myhostname:
        host: myhost.com
        port: 8983
        timeout: 10
        # set up timeouts
        index_timeout: 10
        optimize_timeout: 100
        finalize_timeout: 300
        http_method: 'AUTO'
        # commit within 60ms
        commit_within: 60
  # default path settings
  store:
    path: '.solr'
  cpucores: 2
  debug: false
```

#### Note
If you are using defaults (localhost), it is not necessary to add this to your configuration.

The config is used to connect to Solr. This will tell the module where the Solr instance for this index lives and how to connect.

The store is to select the way to configure the solr configuration storage. Available stores are `FileConfigStore` which requires path, or `PostConfigStore` and a required endpoint to post to.

Example POST Store config:
```yaml
---
Name: 'MySearch'
After:
    - 'SolrSearch'
---
Firesphere\SolrSearch\Services\SolrCoreService:
    store:
      path: '/my_post_endpoint'
      uri: 'https://mydomain.com'
```

And the Injector config to use the PostConfigStore:
```yaml
---
Name: MySolrStore
After:
    - 'SolrStore'
---
SilverStripe\Core\Injector\Injector:
  Firesphere\SolrSearch\Interfaces\ConfigStore:
    class: Firesphere\SolrSearch\Stores\PostConfigStore
```

### Authentication

Solr supports several ways of adding authentication to the instance.

The module only supports Basic Authentication, which can be added in the YML config like so:
```yaml
Firesphere\SolrSearch\Services\SolrCoreService:
  config:
    endpoint:
      myhostname:
        username: solr
        password: SolrRocks
```

### Debug

You can force the debugging to false, by setting the debug flag. If you omit this tag, CLI and Dev mode
will have debugging enabled.

#### ShowInSearch

`ShowInSearch` is handled by the module itself, so there is no need to configure it within your YML/PHP index definition. 
When a content author sets this field to `0` via the CMS, then the related Page or File object is actually _removed_ from the applicable Solr 
core immediately through the `onAfterPublish` or `onAfterWrite` method, or during the next run of the `SolrIndexJob`.

Therefore, custom addition of `ShowInSearch` as a filterable or indexable field in YML
is likely to cause unexpected behaviour.

The reason for removing `ShowInSearch = false|0` from the indexing process, 
is to streamline the number of items stored in Solr's indexes. 
There is no effective need for items to be in the search, if they're not supposed to 
be displayed.

#### Dirty classes

If a change fails to update, a `DirtyClass` is created, recording the need for updating
said object. It is recommended to automatically run the `ClearDirtyClasses` task every few hours
depending on the expected amount of changes daily and the importance of those changes.

The expected time to run the task is quite low, so we recommend running this task reasonably
 often (every 5 or 10 minutes).

#### Defining the amount of CPU cores

If your server has multiple CPU cores available, you can define the amount of cores in the config.
During indexing, this means that each core is allocated an indexing of a group.
The advantage is that it utilises all the cores available, speeding up the indexing process.

The amount of cores can not be determined programmatically (due to access control), so
you will have to define the amount of cores available manually.


**NOTE**

Given the current situation in server-land, the default amount of cores is 2. This should work fine for
most situations, even if you only have one core available. If you have more cores, you can make this
amount larger, of course.
Using all of the cores your system has will make your website pretty slow during indexing!
It is advised to keep at least one core free for handling page visits while you're running an index.

### Using init()

Similar to the FulltextSearch module, using init supports all basic methods to add fulltext or filter fields.

Available methods are:

| Method | Purpose | Required | Usage |
| ------ | ------- | -------- | ----- |
| addClass | Add classes to index | Yes | `$this->addClass(SiteTree::class);` |
| addFulltextField | Add fields to index | No<sup>1</sup> | `$this->addFulltextField('Content');` |
| addAllFulltextField | Add all text fields to index | No | `$this->addAllFulltextFields();` |
| addFilterField | Add fields to use for filtering | No | `$this->addFilterField('ID');` |
| addBoostedField | Fields to boost by on Query time | No | `$this->addBoostedField('Title', ([]/2), 2);`<sup>2</sup> |
| addSortField | Field to sort by | No | `$this->addSortField('Created');` |
| addCopyField | Add a special copy field, besides the default _text | No | `$this->addCopyField('myCopy', ['Fields', 'To', 'Copy']);` |
| addStoredField | Add a field to be stored specifically | No | `$this->addStoredField('LastEdited');` |
| addFacetField | Field to build faceting on | No | `$this->addFacetField(SiteTree::class, ['BaseClass' => SiteTree::class, 'Title' => 'FacetObject', 'Field' => 'FacetObjectID']);` |
 

### Using YML

```yaml
Firesphere\SolrSearch\Indexes\BaseIndex:
  MySearchIndex:
    Classes:
      - SilverStripe\CMS\Model\SiteTree
    FulltextFields:
      - Content
      - TestObject.Title
      - TestObject.TestRelation.Title
    SortFields: 
	  - Created
    FilterFields:
      - Title
      - Created
      - Firesphere\SolrSearch\Tests\TestObject
    BoostedFields:
	  - Title
    CopyFields:
      _text:
        - '*'
    DefaultField: _text
    FacetFields:
      Firesphere\SolrSearch\Tests\TestObject:
        BaseClass: SilverStripe\CMS\Model\SiteTree
        Field: ID
        Title: TestObject

```

#### MySearchIndex

This name should match the name you provided in your Index extending the `BaseIndex` you are instructed
to create in the first step of this document.

#### Moving from init to YML

The [compatibility module](13-Submodules/01-Fulltext-Search-Compatibility.md) has an optional extension 
method that allows you to build your index and then generate the YML content for you. 
See the compatibility module for more details.

## Grouped indexing

Be aware that Grouped indexing is `0`-based. Thus, if there are 150 groups to index,
the final group to index will be 149 instead of 150.

## Method output casting

To get the correct Solr field type in the Solr Configuration, you will need to add a
casting for each method you want to add. So for the `Content` field, the method below:

```php
public function getContent()
{
    return $renderedContent;
}
```

Could have a casting like the below to ensure it renders as HTML:

```php
private static $casting = [
    'getContent' => 'HTMLText',
    'Content'    => 'HTMLText'
];
```

Depending on your field definition, you either need to have the full method name, or the short method name.

## Another way to set the config in PHP

You could also use PHP to set the config. For readability however, it's better to use variables for Facets:
```php
    protected $facetFields = [
        RelatedObject::class   => [
            'BaseClass' => SiteTree::class,
            'Field'     => 'RelatedObjectID',
            'Title'     => 'RelationOne'
        ],
        OtherRelatedObject::class => [
            'BaseClass' => SiteTree::class,
            'Field'     => 'OtherRelatedObjectID',
            'Title'     => 'RelationTwo'
        ]
    ];
```

This will generate a facet field in Solr, assuming this relation exists on `SiteTree` or `Page`.

The relation would look like `SiteTree_RelatedObjectID`, where `RelatedObject` the name of the relation reflects.

The Title is used to group all facets by their Title, in the template, this is accessible by looping `$Result.FacetSet.TitleOfTheFacet`

### Important notice

Facets are relational. For faceting on a relation, omit the origin class (e.g. `SiteTree`), but supply the full relational
path to the facet. e.g. if you want to have facets on `RelationObject->ManyRelation()->OneRelation()->ID`, the Facet declaration should be
`ManyRelationObject.OneRelationID`, assuming it's a `has_one` relation.

If you have many relations, through either `many_many` or `has_many`, your definition should 
use `ManyRelationObjectName.Relation.ID` instead of `RelationID`. It works and resolves the same.

It is strongly advised to use relations for faceting, as Solr tends to think of textual relations in a different way.

#### Example

If you set relations on `MyObject.TextField`, and the text field contains "Content Name
One" and "Content Name Two", faceting would be done in such a way that "Content", "Name"
and "One" would be three different facet results, rather than "Content Name One".

## Accessing Solr

If available, you can access your Solr instance at `http://mydomain.com:8983`

## Excluding unwanted indexes

To exclude unwanted indexes, it is possible declare a list of _wanted_ indexes in the `YML`

```yaml
Firesphere\SolrSearch\Services\SolrCoreService:
  indexes:
    - CircleCITestIndex
    - Firesphere\SolrSearch\Tests\TestIndex
    - Firesphere\SolrSearch\Tests\TestIndexTwo
    - Firesphere\SolrSearch\Tests\TestIndexThree
```

Looking at the `tests` folder, there is a `TestIndexFour`. This index is not loaded unless explicitly asked.

## Excluding unwanted classes from index

To exclude unwanted subclasses from being indexed add these in a list as an `exclude_classes` config on the index. 

For example, if you want to index `SilverStripe\Assets\File` but not it's subclasses `Folder` and `Image`, and you want to index `SilverStripe\CMS\Model\SiteTree` but not `RedirectorPage` the config would look like this:

```yaml
Firesphere\SolrSearch\Indexes\BaseIndex:
  exclude_classes:
    - SilverStripe\CMS\Model\RedirectorPage
    - SilverStripe\Assets\Folder
    - SilverStripe\Assets\Image
```

----------
<sup>1</sup> Although not required, it's highly recommended

<sup>2</sup> The second option of an array can be omitted and directly given the boost value
